ET-4823 update documentation (#1093)
xaynetwork/xayn_discovery_engine: docs/source/getting_started/getting_started.md

Here we take a high-level look at how the system works. The API is divided into two parts: the back office and the front office.

The back office can be used to ingest your content into the system. Every piece of content you ingest is managed as one document within the Xayn system.

The front office is used for all communication between the users and the service. It mainly provides the following use cases:

- Search: in particular, we specialize in semantic search that finds documents which are semantically similar to the given query or another document
- Recommendations: we can return documents based on the user's interests.

> Based on this many other use cases can be implemented. For example, the recommendation API can be used to implement a 'for you' section, while the search API can be used to provide a 'more like this' section. We can also use both and provide 'more like this' functionality to a 'for you' section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on this, many other use cases can be implemented. For example, the recommendation API can be used to implement a 'for you' section, while the search API can be used to provide a 'more like this' section. We can also use both and provide 'more like this' functionality to a 'for you' section.
```

![architectural overview](./architecture_overview.png)

> Before the front office APIs can be used, documents need to be ingested into our system. In the simplest case each document will produce exactly one thing you can search for. We call them snippets, as at their core, they are based on snippets of text. From each of this snippets we will derive a mathematical representation which is used to match the snippets to the provided search queries or user's interests. There are more complex cases where we e.g. split documents. In the first part of this documentation we will only cover the case where a document directly maps to a single snippet. Later parts will cover more advanced use-cases.

Reviewer: Use case should be without `-`

Once we have the documents in the system, we can use the front office to implement different use cases. For example, to have a ‘for you’ section, we need to add user interactions (clicks, reading, viewing) with documents or snippets. With each interaction, the system creates or updates a model that represents the user’s interests each time we add an interaction. Each user has a unique model that is used to return individually personalised search results and recommendations in form of a list of best matching snippets/documents.

> In following we will first explain the general usage of the APIs in the simplest use-cases. Further below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, we will first explain the general usage of the APIs in the simplest use cases. Further below
```

The front office is used for all communication between a client form a user. The front office mainly provides following use cases:

- semantic search, i.e. trying to find documents which are semantically similar to
    - ... a text query
    - ... a document
- personalized recommendations of documents for a  user
    - this is based on semantic representations of the users interest
    - this interests can either be aggregated on out system
    - or provided ad-hoc so that we never store user specific information

Based on this many other use cases can be implemented. For example the personalization API can be used to implement a 'for you' section and the semantic search based on a document can be used to provide a 'more like this' section or add 'more like this' functionality to a 'for you' section. Another common use-case is to use the document based semantic search to refine an existing search.

![architectural overview](./architecture_overview.png)

Before the search or personalization APIs can be used documents need to be ingested into our search system. In the simplest case each document will produce exactly one search target based on its content.

> Through in more complex cases it can produce multiple search target and/or pre-process the content in some way. In the first part of this documentation we will only cover the case where a document directly maps to a single snippet. The following parts will cover more advanced use-cases.

Author: I changed it in a way which I think is better and completely removed the term search target.

Through I personally would prefer if we could only use the term search target instead of snippet everywhere through the documentation as it's in my opinion easier to understand. The reason I did not do so is because we have the terminology of snippets hard coded in our public API so that would be quite confusing to use.

The `snippet` field is used to inform the system about the content of the document; it is used as input to Xaynia to generate a mathematical representation of the document that we can use to match similar documents.

> For this reason, it is essential that the snippet clearly represents the content of the document. In this case, we took a few representative sentences from the document and used them as a snippet. If you
> intend to ingest larger documents the [preprocessing section](#document-preprocessing) contains
> examples about enabling the usage of a [summarizer](#summarizer) or [document splitting](#automatic-document-splitting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, it is essential that the snippet clearly represents the content of the document. In this case, we took a few representative sentences from the document and used them as a snippet. If you
intend to ingest larger documents, the [preprocessing section](#document-preprocessing) contains
examples about enabling the usage of a [summarizer](#summarizer) or [document splitting](#automatic-document-splitting).
```

```

```{note}

> Please note that if an interaction between a user and a document is added, the document will **not** be part of the documents returned for future calls to the recommendation endpoint. This includes all snippets associated to that document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that if an interaction between a user and a document is added, the document will **not** be part of the documents returned for future calls to the recommendation endpoint. This includes all snippets associated with that document.
```

The field [`snippet_id` identifies](#documents-with-multiple-snippets) a specific snippet of a document. The `document_id` field in it represents the whole document. It is the same as the field `id` but `id` has been deprecated.

The field `score` represents how well the documents match the user's interests. The higher the number, the better the documents match. It should be noted that the scores only have meaning in relation to other
scores from the same requests.

If `include_properties` is false, properties are not included in the output, but you can still filter based on them.

If `include_snippet` is true, the plain text snippet of the search result is returned. Be aware that whitespace in the returned snippet can differ from the text provided to the ingestion API.

## Search

Depending on the use-case searching for documents can be achieved as a search for documents _similar_ to a given snippet/document or as a _free-text search_. Both variants can then be run as a anonymous search or a search that is personalized. Personalization comes in two fashions, with a _user-id_ or by providing a interaction _history_.

> Personalized search is a search where the results of the search are reordered based on the interests of the users, this makes it especially useful for use-cases like a 'more like this' section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Personalized search is a search where the results of the search are reordered based on the interests of the users; this makes it especially useful for use cases like a 'more like this' section.
```

    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "document": { "id": "xayn_cd5604c" },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

The result contains a list of snippets similar to the identified document.

> Please note that when using [document with multiple snippets](#documents-with-multiple-snippets) it is recommended to use the snippet id instead of an document id. More details can be found in the chapter
> about documents with multiple snippets and the API documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that when using [document with multiple snippets](#documents-with-multiple-snippets), it is recommended to use the snippet id instead of a document id. More details can be found in the chapter
about documents with multiple snippets and the API documentation.
```

    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "document": { "id": "xayn_cd5604c" },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

> The result contains a list of snippets that are similar to the identified snippet.

Author: I kept it even more generic as the details about multiple snippets don't need to be mentioned here.

Especially given that the snippet with `sub_id: 0` is used by default is purely an implementation detail.

    }'
```

Filter APIs can also work with rfc3339 formatted strings if the field is of type `date`:

```{code-block} bash
:caption: /users/{user_id}/personalized_documents

curl -X POST "$URL/users/u1234/personalized_documents" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "filter": {
            "publication_date": {
                "$gte": "2022-12-30T11:30:32Z"
            }
        },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

# Documents with multiple Snippets

Documents can have multiple snippets, and at the core, our search and recommendation system is based on searching and recommending snippets, not documents.

When using documents with multiple snippets, you need to be aware of a few things:

- there is a snippet id for each specific snippet a document has
- we search for snippets, not documents, so results can contain multiple different snippets of the same document

> - APIs which operate on the document as a whole like the ingestion or candidates API only accept a document id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- APIs which operate on the document as a whole, like the ingestion or candidates API, only accept a document id
```

- all search APIs do accept document and snippet ids with slightly different semantic meaning
    - document ids always refer to the document as a whole
    - while snippet ids refer to a specific snippet

> - for documents which only have exactly one snippet the document id and the snippet id with `sub_id: 0` can be used interchangeably
>     - as such if your system might have documents with multiple snippets in the future it's a good idea to always use the snippet id for forward compatibility

Reviewer: I don´t like the sub point here.

```suggestion
- for documents which only have exactly one snippet, the document id and the snippet id with `sub_id: 0` can be used interchangeably. As such if your system might have documents with multiple snippets in the future, it's a good idea to always use the snippet id for forward compatibility
```

> Some of the search APIs currently have suboptimal implementations when using a document id of a document which has multiple snippets. But this _only_ affects documents which have multiple snippets. As such we recommend always using the snippet id until the implementation is improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the search APIs currently have suboptimal implementations when using a document id of a document which has multiple snippets. But this _only_ affects documents which have multiple snippets. As such, we recommend always using the snippet id until the implementation is improved.
```

## Snippet Id

Snippets are identified by a snippet id consisting of both the document id and a sub id.

> Each document is guaranteed to have a snippet with sub id equals `0`. But besides that,
> there are no guarantees about the value of the `sub_id`. E.g. a document might have snippet
> id's with the sub ids `0`, `400`, `2334`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each document is guaranteed to have a snippet with sub id equals `0`. But besides that,
there are no guarantees about the value of the `sub_id`; this means that a document might have snippet
id's with the sub ids `0`, `400`, `2334`.
```

For example, if we ingest a document like

```json
{
    "id": "12345",
    "snippet": "some text"
},
```

It would have a single snippet with the id `{ "document_id": "12345", "sub_id": 0 }`.

Given the following semantic search example

```bash
curl -X POST "$URL/semantic_search" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "document": { "id": "12345" },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

we could use a snippet id instead of a document id as shown in the example below,
through this is semantically _not_ the same.

```bash
curl -X POST "$URL/semantic_search" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "document": { "id": { "document_id": "12345", "sub_id": 0 },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

> The document id string always represents the intend to refer to a document as a whole, no matter how many snippets that document has.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The document id string always represents the intent to refer to a document as a whole, no matter how many snippets that document has.
```

> The snippet id struct always represents the intend to refer to one specific snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The snippet id struct always represents the intent to refer to one specific snippet.
```

> This means that in the examples above the first represents the intend to search for snippets which are similar to the document as a whole, but the second represent a search for snippets which are similar to the specific snippet which is potentially just a small part of the document. (At the moment the search with the document as a whole has some technical limitations, but such limitations only affect systems which have documents with multiple snippets. Please consult the API documentation for the endpoints you want use it with.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that in the examples above, the first represents the intent to search for snippets which are similar to the document as a whole, but the second represents a search for snippets which are similar to the specific snippet, which is potentially just a small part of the document. (At the moment, the search with the document as a whole has some technical limitations, but such limitations only affect systems which have documents with multiple snippets. Please consult the API documentation for the endpoints you want to use it with.)
```

> We currently recommend using the snippet id for any system which _might maybe_ end up with multiple snippets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using the snippet id for any system which might end up with multiple snippets.
```

## Ingestion

There are two APIs with which you can ingest documents in a way where it can
produce multiple snippets:

- using the [`split` option with `snippet`](#automatic-document-splitting)
- using the [`split` option with `file`](#file-upload)

> Be aware that you need to use sufficient long text for it to be split.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be aware that you need to use sufficient long text for it to be split in multiple snippets.
```

    --data '{
        "document": { "id": { "document_id": "effaffe", "sub_id": 2 },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

This will return the snippets of which the semantic representation is closest to the
semantic representation of snippet with the `sub_id: 2` of the given document.

```{note}
Currently, the whole document used for the search is excluded from the search results, so, the result will not contain snippets from the same document.
```

For personalize semantic search with provided history snippet ids can also be used instead of
document ids:

```json
"personalize": {
    "exclude_seen": true,
    "user": {
         "history": [
             {
                 "id": { "document_id": "valid_doc_id1", "sub_id": 0 },
                 "timestamp": "2000-05-14T20:22:50Z"
             },
             {
                 "id": { "document_id": "valid_doc_id1", "sub_id": 1 },
                 "timestamp": "2000-05-15T20:22:50Z"
             }
         ]
    }
}
```

When the history contains an interaction with a document which has multiple snippets, it will be
processed similar to registering an interaction with each snippet of that document.

> `exclude_seen` always refers to whole documents.

Reviewer: I don´t think is nice to start the sentence with  the name of a field.
```suggestion
The field `exclude_seen` always refers to whole documents.
```

In the example above, even if there were a snippet with id `{ "document_id": "valid_doc_id1", "sub_id": 30 }` it would exclude the whole document `"valid_doc_id1"` no matter how many snippets it has.

> Please be aware that using semantic search based on a document id of a document with multiple snippets has some technical limitations. Mainly instead of searching based on the document as a whole it might search based on
> a single snippet of the document. This will change in the future but until then we recommend to always use the snippet id for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please be aware that using semantic search based on a document id of a document with multiple snippets has some limitations. Mainly, instead of searching based on the document as a whole, it searches based on
a single snippet of the document. For this reason, we recommend to always use the snippet id for now.
```

## Personalization

It is possible to register interactions with specific snippets instead of whole documents:

```bash
curl -X PATCH "$URL/users/u1234/interactions" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "documents": [
            { "id": { "document_id": "effaffe", "sub_id": 1 } },
            { "id": { "document_id": "effaffe", "sub_id": 2 } },
            { "id": { "document_id": "affeffa", "sub_id": 1 } }
        ]
    }'
```

When registering a interaction with a document which has multiple snippets it will be
processed similar to registering an interaction which each snippet of that document.

# Document preprocessing

## Automatic document splitting

> The back office ingestion API provides functionality to automatically split a document into
> multiple parts and create a snippet for each of this parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The back office ingestion API provides functionality to automatically split a document into
multiple parts and create a snippet for each of these parts.
```

The system uses Natural language processing (NLP) algorithms to split the document.

> This algorithm will be improved over time. This means a document ingested now and a equal document ingested
> in the future might have different splits. Additionally, not all NLP splitting algorithms are deterministic so we can't guarantee fully deterministic behavior even with the same algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This algorithm will be improved over time. This means a document ingested now and an equal document ingested
in the future might have different splits. Additionally, not all NLP splitting algorithms are deterministic, so we can't guarantee fully deterministic behaviour even with the same algorithm.
```

We use UK spelling

Author: The is a question I have since a while:

Most IT things use US english.  Our code and API uses US english. So why do we use UK english for the getting started documentation?

> Currently, the splitting works only for the language set when the system is configured.
> The default is English. If you need another language, please contact us.
> We are working to add support for multiple languages to our text-splitting algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The splitting works only for the language set when the system is configured.
The default is English. If you need another language, please contact us.
We are working to add support for multiple languages to our text-splitting algorithm.
```

> Automatic splitting can be enabled on a per document bases by setting the `"split"` option
> to `true` like shown in the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatic splitting can be enabled on a per-document basis by setting the `"split"` option
to `true` as shown in the example below.
```

> When using documents with multiple snippets it is highly recommended to use
> the snippet id for many use-cases, more details can be found in the
> [section about documents with multiple snippets](#documents-with-multiple-snippets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using documents with multiple snippets, it is highly recommended to use
the snippet id for many use cases. More details can be found in the
[section about documents with multiple snippets](#documents-with-multiple-snippets).
```

> If a search using `include_snippet` returns a snippet from a split document then the returned snippet will be the "split" segment produced by the splitting algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a search using `include_snippet` returns a snippet from a split document, the returned snippet will be the "split" segment produced by the splitting algorithm.
```

  ```
- `"snippet_id": { document_id: "effaffe",  sub_id: 2 }` containing
  ```
  "Entscheidet sich der Auftraggeber nicht binnen eines Monats nach Zugang der Anzeige, so ist der\nAuftragnehmer  berechtigt,  den  Unterauftrag  entsprechend  dem  vorgelegten  Verhandlungsergebnis  abzuschließen.\n\nErteilt der Auftraggeber seine ausdrückliche Einwilligung zum Vertragsschluss oder erfolgt der Vertragsschluss nach\nAblauf der Monatsfrist, bleibt die Haftung des Auftragnehmers für die vertragsgemäße Ausführung seiner Leistungen\ngegenüber dem Auftraggeber unberührt."
  ```

## File Upload

The file upload features is _not_ enabled by default contact Xayn if you do need it.

> Documents are often in different formats then plain text. When ingesting you can decide to provide a
> document "file" instead of a snippet. If you do so we will try to extract snippets from the given
> file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documents are often in different formats than plain text. When ingesting, you can decide to provide a
document "file" instead of a snippet. If you do so, we will try to extract snippets from the given
file.
```

File upload implies the [`split`](#automatic-document-splitting) option which means it might always produce documents which have multiple snippets.
The [documents with multiple snippets chapter](#documents-with-multiple-snippets) contains more information about what this means.

Follwing file formats are supported: `application/pdf`, `text/plain`, `text/html`.

> The "file" needs to be provided as base64 encoded string.
> Reusing the example from the getting started section and provding the snippet as `text/plain` file leads to following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "file" needs to be provided as base64 encoded string.
Reusing the example from the getting started section and providing the snippet as `text/plain` file leads to the following example:
```

                "properties": {
                    "title": "The initial challange",
                    "link": "https://xayn.com/blog/the-initial-challenge",
                    "image": "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/5ef08ebd35ddb63551189655/641320bc6be72c5453f4d98d_Blog%20Posts%20Visuals%20-%2003%20Mar%202023-p-2600.png",
                    "location" : ["germany", "berlin", "conference"]
                }
            }
        ]
    }'

```
## Summarizer

> The back office ingestion API provides functionality to automatically summarize the provided content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The back office ingestion API provides functionality to summarize the provided content automatically.
```

> This can be used if the content of a document is too large to be used directly as a snippet. Due to the fact that
> the summarized text still has to fit into the size constraints of a snippet it is better to
> use the [automatic document splitting instead](#automatic-document-splitting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be used if the content of a document is too large to be used directly as a snippet. Because
the summarized text still has to fit into the size constraints of a snippet; it is better to
use the [automatic document splitting instead](#automatic-document-splitting).
```

    }'
```

Filter APIs can also work with rfc3339 formatted strings if the field is of type `date`:

```{code-block} bash
:caption: /users/{user_id}/personalized_documents

curl -X POST "$URL/users/u1234/personalized_documents" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "filter": {
            "publication_date": {
                "$gte": "2022-12-30T11:30:32Z"
            }
        },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

# Documents with multiple Snippets

Documents can have multiple snippets, and at the core our search and recommendation system is based on the searching for and recommending snippets not documents.

> When using documents with multiple snippets you need to be aware about a few things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using documents with multiple snippets, you need to be aware of a few things:
```

- there is a snippet id for each specific snippet a document has

> - we search for snippets not documents, so results can contains multiple (different) snippets of the same document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- we search for snippets, not documents, so results can contain multiple different snippets of the same document
```

> - many APIs which accepts either a document id for referring to a document as a whole or a snippet id to refer to a specific snippet
>     - some APIs currently fall back to using the first snippet if only document id is used, but this is intended to change in the future
> 
> We made sure that all search APIs in which you can refer to a specific snippet also work with just the document id even if the document has multiple snippets. _But_ the results might not be quite as expected as there can be a huge difference in the search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
- APIs accept either a document id for referring to a document as a whole or a snippet id to refer to a specific snippet. Currently, the document id will fall back on the first snippet of the document; this means that the documents in the results could be quite different from the expected one.
```

I feel that the two sentences were partially a repetition of each other but also in contradiction since one says that many (relevant) API get both and the other that all API can work with both

Author: > Currently, the document id will fall back on the first snippet of the document;

This is not correct. Some do, others already do something better, through not necessary flashed out.

>  other that all API can work with both

not all which can be called with document id (e.g. candidates API) can be called with snippet id

but all which work with snippet id can be called with document id 

of the ones which can be called with snippet id most have suboptimal results when called with document id of documents with multiple snippets but with varying degrees of suboptimality

some of the suboptimal results are just imbalanced, e.g. when computing CoI tof documents with multiple snippets as a whole it biases in favor of documents with more snippets

some other do fall back to using one snippet of the document, mainly (only?) the semantic search 

and some of the ones which work with both have suboptimal implementations in various ways when called with a document id for cases where the document referred to has multiple snippets, e.g. some of the some do fall back to using the first snippet

Author: I rephrased it I hope it's now more clear.

## Snippet Id

Snippets are identified by a snippet id consisting of both the document id and a sub id.

Each document is guaranteed to have a snippet with sub id equals `0`. But besides that
there are no guarantees about the value of the `sub_id`. E.g. a document might have snippet
id's with the sub ids `0`, `400`, `2334`.

For example if we ingest a document like

```json
{
    "id": "12345",
    "snippet": "some text"
},
```

It would have a single snippet with the id `{ "document_id": "12345", "sub_id": 0 }`.

> So if we have following semantic search example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, the following semantic search example that use the document id
```

Author: so the comment below

```bash
curl -X POST "$URL/semantic_search" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "document": { "id": "12345" },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

we could also use the snippet id instead like shown below

```bash
curl -X POST "$URL/semantic_search" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "document": { "id": { "document_id": "12345", "sub_id": 0 },
        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

> This pattern of replacing document id string with a snippet id struct is also used in all other places
> a snippet id can be used.
> 
> Be aware that using `{ "id": "12345" }` represents the whole document but `{ "document_id": "12345", "sub_id": 0 }` represents the first snippet specifically and for some APIs this makes a difference
> for documents which have multiple embeddings as described in the sections below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As already stated before the document id represent the whole document while the snippet id represents one of multiple snippets of a document.
The equivalence between document id and a snippet with `sub_id = 0` can change in the future so we suggest not relying on it.
```

I don´t want to encourage them to use the equivalence. or to blindly use document id instead of snippet id. They should choose what they need depending on the use-case.

Author: > The equivalence between document id and a snippet with `sub_id = 0` can change in the future so we suggest not relying on it.

This isn't quite correct, even in the current system  in most places they are not equivalent.

> This pattern of replacing document id string with a snippet id struct is also used in all other places
a snippet id can be used.

> I don´t want to encourage them to use the equivalence.

This was more meant to point out that you:

- can migrate from one use-case to the other fluently
- don't have to worry too much about it when you just start out
- isn't an issue when you don't have split documents

I rephrased this chapter. I resolved the two related change requests above as the rephrasing involves that code.

## Ingestion

There are two APIs with which you can ingest documents in a way where it can
produce multiple snippets:

- using the [`split` option with `snippet`](#automatic-document-splitting)
- using the [`split` option with `file`](#file-upload)

be aware that you need to use sufficient long text for it to be split.

You could use the example from the [`split` option section](#automatic-document-splitting) or use
your own document, something along ~1000 words will likely generate multiple splits.

## Semantic Search

As mentioned the search results are based on snippets not documents, as such a search
can yield multiple different snippets of the same document.

The semantic search API can also be used based on a specific snippet (and for systems
which have documents with multiple embeddings that is recommended):

```bash
curl -X POST "$URL/semantic_search" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{

>         "document": { "id": { "document_id": "effaffe", "sub_id": 2 },

Author: We are sure as in this is how it's specified and published.

The idea is to be able to use both interchangeably.

Most times this will be called from js/ts where can just pass a `string| { document_id: string, sub_id: int }` type.

In the result we don't do so because we want to but because we can't just replace `id: string` with `id: {}` without it being a braking change.

Originally when designing there was at some point the misconception that we had named the id field `document_id` like in sql to allow more forward compatibility, but it turned out we did not.

In general I would propose next time we first update the documentation including tutorial like use-cases (weather we publish them or not) as this highlights such discrepancies much more clean.

Through if we still could do braking change wrt. the snippet id API I would do following:

- rename `snippet_id` to `target_id`  and `Snippet` in that context to `SearchTarget`
- *maybe* use `document_id: string` or `target_id: opaque_string` as inputs and outputs, deprecate `id` in both input and output, but also *maybe* not, I'm bit worried about snippet ids (no matter the representation)  because they are mostly non predictable and non query-able, which could be an issue for some customer use-cases

Through AIFIK this wasn't an option already ~4 weeks ago when I first pointed out that the term of snippet and in turn snippet id is sub optimal.

        "include_properties": true
    }'
```

This will return the snippets of which the semantic representation is closest to the

> semantic representation of the second snippet of the given document.

Reviewer: I don´t like that we say `second snippet`. We said that snippets are not necessarily sequential but we seem to suggest it again (even if 2 would be third).

```suggestion
semantic representation of a snippet of the given document.
```

Author: I changed it in a different way. It's still a specific snippet so `a snippet` is a bit to general.

```{note}

> Currently the whole document used for search is excluded from the search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the whole document used for the search is excluded from the search results, so, the result will not contain snippets from the same document.
```

```

> For personalize semantic search with provided history snippet ids can also be used instead of

Reviewer: Here, personalize is fine.

document ids:

```json
"personalize": {
    "exclude_seen": true,
    "user": {
         "history": [
             {
                 "id": { "document_id": "valid_doc_id1", "sub_id": 0 },
                 "timestamp": "2000-05-14T20:22:50Z"
             },
             {
                 "id": { "document_id": "valid_doc_id1", "sub_id": 1 },
                 "timestamp": "2000-05-15T20:22:50Z"
             }
         ]
    }
}
```

> When the history contains a interaction with a document which has multiple snippets it will be
> processed similar to registering an interaction which each snippet of that document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the history contains an interaction with a document which has multiple snippets, it will be
processed similar to registering an interaction with each snippet of that document.
```

> `exclude_seen` currently always refer to whole documents, i.e. in the example above even if there
> is a snippet with the id `{ "document_id": "valid_doc_id1", "sub_id": 30 }` it would exclud a the
> whole document `"valid_doc_id1"` no matter how many snippets it has.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`exclude_seen` always refers to whole documents.
In the example above, even if there were a snippet with id `{ "document_id": "valid_doc_id1", "sub_id": 30 }` it would exclude the whole document `"valid_doc_id1"` no matter how many snippets it has.
```

> ## Personalization

Reviewer: HEre I would use Recomndations or Interactions since we only discuss that.

Reviewer: :point_up:

It is possible to register interactions with specific snippets instead of whole documents:

```bash
curl -X PATCH "$URL/users/u1234/interactions" \
    --header "authorizationToken: $FRONTOFFICE_TOKEN" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
        "documents": [
            { "id": { "document_id": "effaffe", "sub_id": 1 } },
            { "id": { "document_id": "effaffe", "sub_id": 2 } },
            { "id": { "document_id": "affeffa", "sub_id": 1 } }
        ]
    }'
```

When registering a interaction with a document which has multiple snippets it will be
processed similar to registering an interaction which each snippet of that document.

# Document preprocessing

> ## Summarizer

Reviewer: I would move this after the document splitting. Summarizer is very limited so I don´t want to promote it.

Author: I was wondering why it even is in the getting started documentation tbh. maybe we should remove it?

The back office ingestion API provides functionality to automatically summarize the provided content.

> This can be used if the content of a document is to large to be used directly as a snippet. Due to the fact that
> the summarized text still has to fit into the size constraints of a snippet it is often better to
> use the [automatic document splitting instead](#automatic-document-splitting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be used if the content of a document is too large to be used directly as a snippet. Due to the fact that
the summarized text still has to fit into the size constraints of a snippet it is better to
use the [automatic document splitting instead](#automatic-document-splitting).
```

If a search using `include_snippet` returns a summarized document then the returned snippet will be based on the snippet provided for ingestion, not the snippet internally produced through the summarizer. Whitespace can still differ.

## Automatic document splitting

The back office ingestion API provides functionality to automatically split a document into
multiple parts and create a snippet for each of this parts.

The system uses Natural language processing (NLP) algorithms to split the document.

This algorithm will be improved over time. This means a document ingested now and a equal document ingested

> in the future might have different splits. Additionally, not all NLP splitting algorithms are deterministic so we can't guarantee fully deterministic behavior even if changes to the algorithm are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the future might have different splits. Additionally, not all NLP splitting algorithms are deterministic so we can't guarantee fully deterministic behavior even with the same algorithm.
```

> Currently, the splitting works only with well for a language set when the system is set up.
> The default is English. If you need another language, please contact us.
> We are working to add support for multiple languages to our text-splitting algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the splitting works only for the language set when the system is configured.
The default is English. If you need another language, please contact us.
We are working to add support for multiple languages to our text-splitting algorithm.
```

Automatic splitting can be enabled on a per document bases by setting the `"split"` option
to `true` like shown in the example below.

> **Be aware that if documents with multiple snippets are used it is highly recommended to use
> the snippet id for many use-cases, more details can be found in the
> [section about documents with multiple snippets](#documents-with-multiple-snippets)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using documents with multiple snippets it is highly recommended to use
the snippet id for many use-cases, more details can be found in the
[section about documents with multiple snippets](#documents-with-multiple-snippets).
```

                "split": true
            }
        ]
    }'

```

could split the text into three part:

> - `"snippet_id": { document_id: "effaffe",  sub_id: 0 }` containing `"6.2  Die  Vergabe  von  Unteraufträgen  hat  nach  Möglichkeit  im  Wettbewerb  zu  erfolgen.\n\nBei  der  Einholung  von  An-\ngeboten  für  Unteraufträge  sind  kleine  und  mittlere,  nicht  konzerngebundene  Unternehmen  soweit  möglich  zu  betei-\nligen.\n\nDie  in  Betracht  kommenden  Unternehmen  sind  dem  Auftraggeber  vom  Auftragnehmer  auf  Verlangen  vor  der\nErteilung des Unterauftrags zu benennen.\n\n6.3  Der Auftragnehmer zeigt dem Auftraggeber jeden Unterauftrag sowie jeden Wechsel eines Unterauftragnehmers\nnach Erteilung des jeweiligen Unterauftrags bis zum Ende der jeweiligen Vertragslaufzeit unverzüglich und unaufge-\nfordert in Textform an.\n\nMaßgeblich ist das Datum des Vertragsschlusses.\n\nDabei teilt der Auftragnehmer  mindestens\nden Namen und die Anschrift des Unterauftragnehmers mit sowie den Gegenstand des Unterauftrags.\n\nDie Anzeige-\npflicht  entfällt,  wenn  dem  Auftraggeber  die  Informationen  bereits  aus  dem  Angebot  des  Auftragnehmers  bzw.\n\nden\nVergabeunterlagen bekannt sind.\n\n6.4  Hat der Auftraggeber in der Bekanntmachung oder in den Vergabeunterlagen Anforderungen über die Eignung\noder Auftragserfüllung für Unterauftragnehmer aufgestellt, sind diese von allen Unterauftragnehmern zu erfüllen.\n\nDies\ngilt auch im Fall des Austauschs von Unterauftragnehmern während der Vertragslaufzeit."`

Reviewer 2: Would it makes sense to use code blocks for the text instead of single backtick to make it look better? 
currently it looks like this
<img width="752" alt="Screenshot 2023-09-28 at 10 56 15" src="https://github.com/xaynetwork/xayn_discovery_engine/assets/10488408/9fcb0769-c695-4f60-aa70-9978b282bb74">

- `"snippet_id": { document_id: "effaffe",  sub_id: 2 }` containing `"Entscheidet sich der Auftraggeber nicht binnen eines Monats nach Zugang der Anzeige, so ist der\nAuftragnehmer  berechtigt,  den  Unterauftrag  entsprechend  dem  vorgelegten  Verhandlungsergebnis  abzuschließen.\n\nErteilt der Auftraggeber seine ausdrückliche Einwilligung zum Vertragsschluss oder erfolgt der Vertragsschluss nach\nAblauf der Monatsfrist, bleibt die Haftung des Auftragnehmers für die vertragsgemäße Ausführung seiner Leistungen\ngegenüber dem Auftraggeber unberührt."`

## File Upload

> _The file upload features is not enabled by default_ contact Xayn if you do need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file upload features is _not_ enabled by default contact Xayn if you do need it.
```

Documents are often in different formats then plain text. When ingesting you can decide to provide a
document "file" instead of a snippet. If you do so we will try to extract snippets from the given
file.

> Currently this option can only be used together with the `split` option and follwing file formats are supported: `application/pdf`, `text/plain`, `text/html`.

Reviewer: When uploading a file the `split`option is automatically set to true.
At the moment we support Microsoft Word (and similar) and PDF file.

Author: Where can a find a list of supported media types? Microsoft Word isn't really one specific file formats but at least 2 probably more.

We also should support `text/plain`.

                "properties": {
                    "title": "The initial challange",
                    "link": "https://xayn.com/blog/the-initial-challenge",
                    "image": "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/5ef08ebd35ddb63551189655/641320bc6be72c5453f4d98d_Blog%20Posts%20Visuals%20-%2003%20Mar%202023-p-2600.png",
                    "location" : ["germany", "berlin", "conference"]
                },

>                 "split": true

Reviewer: We could omit this here.

Author: I decided to repeat it here as people might jump into the document instead of reading it linearly.  So they might end up reading about `file upload` before reading about anything related to splitting.  

I would even say we should see if we can set things up in the document generation so that we don't just have a outline for the main titles but also one layer of sub titles.

            }
        ]
    }'

```

> Be aware that this always has the potential to produce [multiple snippets](#documents-with-multiple-snippets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don´t think it adds much then what we already said.

Author: Especially given that we do remove the `split` from above I would say we should even highlight it more then it's now.

People often don't read documentation linearly and if you directly jump to file upload you might be very surprised by how it behaves. In general file upload might not be the best name. Something like text extraction might have been a better name.

Author: I removed the line here and rephrased the documentation above the example.
